This database tracks how the American media covered crime from 1975-2000. 

Media coverage of crime affects public perception and public policy. We built this searchable database for researchers, activists and any curious person who seeks a more nuanced understanding how mass incarceration happened. The language that journalists used in their crime coverage over time can offer important context in the development of criminal justice.

Some journalists used the term “wolf pack” to describe five teenagers who were wrongfully convicted of raping a woman in New York’s Central Park in 1989. The term might have been applied to the journalists themselves. 

**Project Outputs**

[This story](https://newrepublic.com/article/164419/denver-lost-mind-youth-crime-wave-panic) by LynNell Hancock explores how two daily newspapers in Denver created a panic over youth crime in the summer of 1993. They published 233 stories using the word “shooting” that summer, an 80% increase over 1992 – a year when there were more murders. Banner headlines called it the “Summer of Violence,” and the Colorado legislature rewrote its juvenile justice laws that fall. Data analysis by Noya Kohavi, with reporting contributed by Carroll Bogert.

[This story](https://www.themarshallproject.org/2020/11/20/superpredator-the-media-myth-that-demonized-a-generation-of-black-youth) by Carroll Bogert and LynNell Hancock shows how the term “superpredator” spread like wildfire through the American media in 1995-96. Coined by a Princeton professor, the term described a supposedly growing cohort of young, violent men without a conscience. Juvenile crime had already begun to fall just as the “superpredator” myth was being repeated in newspapers across America, appearing nearly 300 times in forty major media before 2000, demonizing a generation of Black and brown youth. Data analysis by Noya Kohavi.

[This story](https://go.gale.com/ps/i.do?id=GALE%7CA96554265&sid=googleScholar&v=2.1&it=r&linkaccess=abs&issn=0010194X&p=AONE&sw=w&userGroupName=nysl_oweb&isGeoAuthType=true&aty=geo) by LynNell Hancock examined media coverage of the Central Park jogger case, in which five Black and brown boys were wrongfully convicted of the 1989 rape of a woman in New York City. The media’s rush to condemn the boys for the crime, and the widespread use of animalistic terminology to describe children, typified the era’s racist and hyperbolic crime coverage and set the stage for harsh media language during the 1990’s.